---

layout: post

title: का गुरु और सब चकाचक?

date: 2019-01-01

categories: Archive

tags: लेला

description: का गुरु खूब मजा लेत हुवा भाई तेरी कसम

---

文章来自微信公号「木田无花」：~~[自我审视 \| 一个北大既得利益者的自述](https://mp.weixin.qq.com/s/-cLIAViez8kslpwFb5SeLQ)~~

作者：木田无花

---
**
1. Explanation:
A government meeting was recently held to review and formulate an action plan for Government e Marketplace (GeM) to achieve a target for Rs. lakh crore Gross Merchandise Volume (GMV) on GeM in FY 2019-20.
Statement 1 is incorrect: GeM is a state-of-the-art national public procurement platform of Ministry of Commerce and Industries that has used technology to remove entry barriers for bonafide sellers and has created a vibrant e-marketplace with a wide range of goods and services.
Statement 2 is correct: It facilitates online procurement of common use Goods & Services required by various Government Departments / Organisations / PSUs. GeM aims to enhance transparency, efficiency and speed in public procurement.
Thus, Option B is correct.


2. Explanation:
Justification: Statement 1 is incorrect: Recently, the Union Minister of Housing & Urban Affairs has launched the Safai Mitra Suraksha Challenge. It aims to ensure that no life of any sewer or septic tank cleaner is ever lost again owing to the issue of ‘hazardous cleaning. The challenge has been launched in 243 cities to mechanize all sewer and septic tank cleaning operations by 30th April 2021.
Statement 2 is correct: Recently, the Ministry of Defence has launched the portal for Defence Land Management System (LMS). It has been developed by Department of Defence in collaboration with Directorate General Defence Estates (DGDE) and Armed forces. The Intra-net portal shall digitize all requests of defence land management received by the Department in future. The portal is expected to bring in greater speed, transparency and efficiency into the Land Management System (LMS) of the Department.
Thus, option B is correct.


3. Explanation:
Justification: Recently, the Energy Efficiency Services Limited (EESL) and Department of New & Renewable Energy (DNRE), Goa, have signed a memorandum of understanding to roll out India’s first Convergence Project. Goa is the first state to adopt Convergence.
About India’s first Convergence Project
•  The project will accrue savings of INR 2,574 crores to the State over the period of 25 years.
•  The project will provide clean day time electricity to farmers as well as energy efficient pump sets which would reduce the power consumption as well as T&D losses associated with transmitting power to agriculture and rural feeder networks. 
•  Through its convergence initiative, EESL seeks to connect seemingly independent sectors like Solar Energy, Energy Storage and LED lights to provide solutions.
•  Under this programme, EESL is offering convergent interventions, which solve multiple gap areas in the energy ecosystem.
Significance of Convergence Project
•  The project is aimed at improving the health of DISCOMs and providing cleaner power.
•  The projects will accelerate the usage of renewable energy sources, especially for agricultural and rural power consumption in the State.
•  The projects will also contribute in reduction of peak energy demand through deployment of energy efficient pumping and lighting thus contributing to overall sustainability.
Thus, option B is correct.


4. Explanation:
Justification: Recently, the office of the Registrar General of India (RGI) has said the schedule or the questionnaire of the National Population Register (NPR) is being finalised and the information about the expected date of first phase of Census 2021 is not available.
Statement 1 is correct: The National Population Register (NPR) is a Register of usual residents of the country.It defines a usual resident as a person who has resided in a local area for the past 6 months or more or a person who intends to reside in that area for the next 6 months or more.
Statement 2 is correct: It is mandatory for every usual resident of India to register in the NPR.
Statement 3 is correct: The NPR only contains demographic information but the census is the basis for reviewing the country's progress in the past decade.
Thus, option A is correct.


| Priority apples | Second priority | Third priority |
|-------|--------|---------|
| ambrosia | gala | red delicious |
| pink lady | jazz | macintosh |
| honeycrisp | granny smith | fuji |
surround text, etc.

| Tables        | Are           | Cool  |
| ------------- |:-------------:| -----:|
| col 3 is      | right-aligned | $1600 |
| col 2 is      | centered      |   $12 |
| zebra stripes | are neat      |    $1 |

surround text...



